# MCX Trading Suggestion System using Prophet Model

There were 3 different popular exchange sectors in India.
## NSC - National Stock Exchange
## BSC - Bombay Stock Exchange
  Both NSC and BSC are exclusive for Share market.
## MCX - Multi Commodity Exchange 
  MCX is exclusive for Commodity market.

The datasets for this project were collected from the MCX official website (2013 - 2023)
https://www.mcxindia.com/


# Abstract
MCX is India's first commodity derivatives exchange facilitating online trading of commodity derivatives transactions.  It was established in 2003 and is headquartered in Mumbai, India.  Offering trading in a range of Non-Agri commodities including gold, silver, crude oil, natural gas, base metals, and Agricultural products such as cotton, soybean, and mentha oil, among others.  The suggestion involves using the Prophet model to forecast the future price movements of selected commodities traded on MCX. The model takes into account seasonal trends, cyclical patterns, and other factors that affect the prices of commodities, and provides accurate forecasts that can help traders make informed decisions.

# Objective of the project
The main objective of this project is to reduce the risk for the traders and provide best suggestion to them.
Actually during trading the traders must have some basic fundamental knowledge about the commodity trading such as,
1. Contract Size
2. Expiry Date
3. Margin Money
4. Daily Average Price range

   This model Provide trading suggestions based on the forecasts generated by the model. The system will use the forecasts to suggest buying, selling, or holding positions in various commodities, based on pre-defined trading rules and strategies.
The system will use time-series techniques to learn from past performance and adjust the model and the trading suggestions accordingly.





